At the sunset  hour of one warm spring day two  men were  to be seen at Patriarch's Ponds. The first of them--aged about forty, dressed in a greyish summer  suit--was  short,  dark-haired,  well-fed  and bald.  He carried his decorous pork-pie hat by the brim and his neatly shaven face was embellished by  black hornrimmed spectacles of  preternatural  dimensions. The other,  a broad-shouldered young  man with  curly reddish hair  and a check cap pushed back  to the nape of  his neck,  was  wearing a tartan  shirt,  chewed white trousers and black sneakers.      The first was none other than Mikhail Alexandrovich  Berlioz, editor of a  highbrow literary magazine  and chairman of the management cofnmittee  of one of the  biggest Moscow  literary  clubs, known by  its  abbreviation  as massolit; his  young companion  was  the  poet Ivan  Nikolayich Poniryov who wrote under the pseudonym of Bezdomny.      Reaching  the shade  of the budding lime  trees,  the two writers  went straight to a gaily-painted kiosk labelled'Beer and Minerals'.      There was an oddness about  that  terrible day in  May  which  is worth recording  : not  only at  the  kiosk but along the whole avenue parallel to Malaya Bronnaya Street there was not a person to be seen. It was the hour of the  day  when people  feel too exhausted to breathe, when Moscow glows in a dry haze as the sun disappears behind the Sadovaya Boulevard--yet no one had come  out for a walk under the limes,  no one  was  sitting  on a bench, the avenue was empty.      'A glass of lemonade, please,'said Berlioz.      'There isn't any,'replied the woman  in the kiosk. For some reason  the request seemed to offend her.      'Got any beer?' enquired Bezdomny in a hoarse voice.      'Beer's being delivered later this evening' said the woman.      'Well what have you got?' asked Berlioz.      'Apricot juice, only it's warm' was the answer.      'All right, let's have some.'      The apricot juice produced a rich  yellow froth, making the  air  smell like a hairdresser's. After drinking it the two writers immediately began to hiccup.  They paid and  sat down on a bench facing  the pond, their backs to Bronnaya  Street.Then occurred  the second oddness,  which  affected Berlioz alone.  He suddenly stopped  hiccuping, his heart  thumped and for  a moment vanished, then  returned  but  with  a  blunt  needle sticking  into it.  In addition  Berlioz was seized  by a  fear that was groundless but so powerful that he had an immediate impulse  to run away from Patriarch's Ponds without looking back.      Berlioz gazed  miserably  about him, unable  to say what had frightened him.  He went pale,  wiped his forehead with his handkerchief and thought: ' What's  the  matter with me?  This has never happened  before. Heart playing tricks . . .  I'm overstrained ... I think it's time  to chuck everything up and go and take the waters at Kislovodsk. . . .'      Just then the sultry air coagulated and wove itself into the shape of a man--a  transparent man of the strangest appearance. On his small head was a jockey-cap and he wore a short check bum-freezer made of  air.  The man  was seven feet tall but narrow in the shoulders, incredibly thin and with a face made for derision.      Berlioz's life  was  so arranged that he  was not  accustomed to seeing unusual  phenomena. Paling even more, he stared and thought in consternation : ' It can't be!'